[MUSIC]
In this video we're going to look at
the role of SAS in data and analytics.
SAS stands for Statistical Analysis
System, a licensed software system for
data analysis, graphs, and report writing.
SAS comprises a group of computer programs
that work together to store data values
and retrieve them,
modify data, compute simple and
complex statistical analysis,
and create reports.
Commercial and public organizations
use SAS to perform data analysis.
Non-technical users can interact with
SAS’s point-and-click user interface.
There are also more advanced programming
options, called SAS language, that allow
you to perform more complex data
management and advanced analysis on data.
We have used SAS to aggregate large and
varied data sets,
merging multiple datasets on key variables
to construct longitudinal patient and
customer histories.
These data sets may include third party
external data that has been purchased or
subscribed, publicly available data,
and of course, our client's data.
SAS allows us to maintain logs and
lists of the programs run and
the outcome of each merger
step where data were combined
to provide record of the number of
observations processed to our clients and
for review by third parties,
such as regulatory agencies.
It also allows us the capability to make
changes to existing SAS programs for
re-use and scalability.
You now have a high level understanding
of how SAS is used in data and analytics.
[MUSIC]